## Self and Team Assessment

I have combined the self and team into one written analysis since we worked as a team seamlessly and through previous knowledge and experience were able to work as a unit without much debate or issue.

For our project I played mostly the Square role, but since we only had three teammates we all shared the X role to make sure everything was completed. Within my role I first initialized a repository on GitHub, which included establishing a .gitignore file and README markdown. I also utilized .gitkeep files to create a folder structure the team could utilize throughout the process without too much confusion on where things were supposed to go. I used my role as an opportunity to learn GitHub more and stretch my command line shell skill-set out. Barring the pull requests and a few other things I tried to utilize Git Bash as much as I could. I used those skills to create branches for the two other teammates and myself so that any changes could be done on the separate branches then pulled into the main once it was checked. To stay on track, I created a group chat on Slack that was heavily utilized throughout the course of the project. All of these things were done and decided on the first day so that we that we had a framework to build on.

Utilizing Slack and Zoom my teammates and I were able to select a topic, come up with a reason why we selected the topic and establish generally what questions we wanted to ask. Through Slack various possible dataset resources were posted and quite a few times we would come together over the first week to mull through these potential datasets. Utilizing the branches and the repository the unclean data was pushed to main and the beginning workings of the machine learning model pushed as well. The other two teammates continued to work the data and I made sure that the Presentation parts of the rubric where in the repository README, that the README was formatted, and making sure that all the rubric details were covered for the GitHub portion. As the project went on, I made sure that the repository remained as clean and orderly as possible so my teammates could just worry about pulling and pushing the dataset that they found, cleaned and transformed and I would take care of pull requests and making sure there were enough commits. I also created the Google Slide presentation with a framework and basic outline for the Storyboard and Dashboard. The description of the tools was finalized and placeholders for the interactive elements was added. The README was kept up as well and details were added by teammates which I would go over and make sure the text was formatted, the content itself edited to be more concise along with fixing typos.

As the final two weeks came upon us, I began to create test interactive visualizations so that the teammates and our advisor of the group could provide input. The teammates continued to do their portion in regards to the machine learning model and getting the details onto the slides and README, while I would be the graphic designer in a sense and make sure everything was readable and formatted. I also kept working the visualizations, made sure images were on the README and slides, and overall that there was a cohesive presentation and dashboard from a design perspective in the slides. The visualizations and interactive element were put together for the dashboard and as teammates added details, I would again made sure it was edited properly. We came together multiple times before the final class to put finishing touches on the presentation and dashboard. At this point we really just would go through the rubric and query each other on tasks then delegate through Slack and a Google document I created so that we could all edit a rubric checklist instead of having to worry about missing a message that pertained to the project. Each of us tried to take on equal amounts of work, and would coordinate times to do work together utilizing Slack, Zoom and the Google suite of productivity tools.
For the grand majority of the project, I was the GitHub guru, the graphic/data visualization designer, and editor. We all pitched in on peer reviewing each other’s work and definitely kept the compliments flowing due to our hard work. I don't think I'd change a thing, since I honestly wish these two could be my perpetual teammates. They may have had their grievances that I'm unaware of, but they were incredibly professional about it. Honestly, I don't think this is or ever was the case. We were all very understanding of the various personal challenges we faced in our lives and were able to resolve everything without conflict that came up project wise. I guess that would be my tip, be open and talk to your teammates and always complement each other on things that have been done. It helped keep the vibe between communications professional but incredibly easy to come back to. I never dreaded having to work with Briana and Rafael. Oh, another tip I forgot, just get those two on your team and you'll do great!

In closing of this self and team analysis I have come to the realization that the greatest challenge I faced was myself. Call it imposter syndrome, or something else, there were definitely times I felt like a complete idiot as my teammates absolutely crushed it with the database and machine learning model. In my mind I was just the guy who made sure stuff look pretty. I would ask repeatedly if I could take on any work, but they had their portions they fulfilled and I fulfilled mine, so mainly it was either just editing or tweaking details for them. Honestly up until after our presentation I felt like I had made a very incorrect choice taking this bootcamp. That I hadn't done enough work, that I was out of my league with my teammates and did not belong. I kept thinking, "I wish there was a job position where I could work a command line shell like bash and also edit and make stuff look good because that's all I'm good at". Since through the first three weeks of the project my teammates had been doing the database and machine learning model I felt like a fake. As my teammates brought me up to speed throughout the project on their end of it, I just felt like the idiot editor who, "big deal", managed the GitHub. Obviously, this is not true. I had my hands in everything but the dataset and machine learning model, and even those I had some peripheral contact with be it in some minor fashion. I think I kept just forgetting the work that I did to make sure my teammates could be successful. That for those four weeks they were the priority, and besides the first three weekends, we were in contact in some form mostly daily. It felt so natural that I began to feel fake, I think. It was like the more I became comfortable with my tools and our project, the more I doubted myself.

Sadly, I was not the one to snap myself into reality, but it was the praise by our instructor and TA's of my design work that really made it all clear. That I had been working very hard and fulfilling my end of the bargain plus more. That is always the case. I hate when other people are taking on more work than they should and love shouldering the burden with them. I did overcome the challenge of myself and more, it just took until everything was finished to finally do it and realize what I had accomplished. I shouldn't say "sadly", because even though it was not through self-reflection, the fact is I recognized the truth. It definitely helps that the instructor: Travis and the TA's: Josh and Patricia are absolutely amazing people and bar none my favorite part about this program. Oh, and definitely shout out to Brett! That guy is definitely a rockstar!


## Summary of Project


Our project is on the relationship between GDP and the productive and technological capacities of different countries within a set date of years.
The machine learning modules utilized was the Multivariate Linear Regression Model and ultimately the Random Forest Classifier was our final machine learning module.
The result of our analysis found that indeed there is a relationship and that there are productive or technological capacities specifically per country that could be utilized to see a gain in GDP and our model was able to predict these potential gains with a high accuracy.
